add docs about event log rotation (#2131)
input-output-hk/hydra: docs/docs/dev/architecture/event-sourcing.md

  - [ ] Concurrent use of `sourceEvents` is possible
  
- [ ] General: allocated resources are released (use with/bracket pattern)

### Event Log Rotation

> Long-living Heads may produce a large number of persisted events, which can cause restarts after failure to take a significant amount of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Long-living heads may produce a large number of persisted events, which can impact the restart time of the hydra-node as it needs to read in all the previous state.
```

Event log rotation was introduced to improve recovery times by reducing the number of events that need to be replayed on startup. This is achieved by periodically replacing the current event log with a new one that starts from a checkpoint event, which captures the latest aggregated head state.

> Only rotated log files are saved with an incrementing `logId` suffix in their names, while the main state file name remains unchanged to preserve backward compatibility. Rotation can be enabled via the optional `--persistence-rotate-after` command-line option, which specifies the number of events after which rotation should occur.

Reviewer: Can you write about the names?

i.e. with `--persistence-rotate-after 100` we get:

```
state-99
state-199
state-299
...
```

Only rotated log files are saved with an incrementing `logId` suffix in their names, while the main `state` log file remains unchanged to preserve backward compatibility. This `logId` suffix corresponds to the ID of the last event included in that file.
Rotation can be enabled via the optional `--persistence-rotate-after` command-line argument, which specifies the number of events after which rotation should occur.
> For example, with `--persistence-rotate-after 100`, you’ll get rotated files named: state-99, state-199, state-299, and so on, each containing 100 events. This is because event IDs start at 0.

Note that, depending on the rotation configuration used, the current `state` file may already contain more events than the specified threshold, causing a rotation to occur immediately on startup before any new inputs are processed.

Upon rotation, a server output is produced to notify external agents when a checkpoint occurs, allowing them to perform archival or cleanup actions without interrupting the Hydra Head.

> The appropriate value for `--persistence-rotate-after` depends on your specific use case and the expected transaction volume.

Reviewer: We need to give them some idea how to set this.

As I mentioned, you can make an estimate using the `hydra-cluster --busy ...` test; or some other mechanism you prefer; but we need to give them enough information to be able to work out what to set here.

Only rotated log files are saved with an incrementing `logId` suffix in their names, while the main `state` log file remains unchanged to preserve backward compatibility. This `logId` suffix corresponds to the ID of the last event included in that file.
Rotation can be enabled via the optional `--persistence-rotate-after` command-line argument, which specifies the number of events after which rotation should occur.
> For example, with `--persistence-rotate-after 100`, you’ll get rotated files named: state-99, state-199, state-299, and so on, each containing 100 events. This is because event IDs start at 0.

Note that, depending on the rotation configuration used, the current `state` file may already contain more events than the specified threshold, causing a rotation to occur immediately on startup before any new inputs are processed.

Upon rotation, a server output is produced to notify external agents when a checkpoint occurs, allowing them to perform archival or cleanup actions without interrupting the Hydra Head.

The appropriate value for `--persistence-rotate-after` depends on your specific use case and the expected transaction volume.

> > As a rough guideline, running `cabal run hydra-cluster -- --devnet --publish-hydra-scripts --busy --state-directory out` (which uses `--persistence-rotate-after 10000`) produces a rotated log file of approximately 7.7MB every 3 minutes.

Reviewer: I think this is fine; but keeping in mind that this is being read by _users_, we might want to not show them the complication of how we got the data; more just the results.

I.e.

"In a simple scenario, we see that setting the value to 10k results in log file sizes of about 8 meg; you will likely see something different dependent on your usage; due to the following factors: ...."

>

> > Keep in mind that the size and frequency of rotated files will vary depending on several factors:

Reviewer: Nice
